IT guys in this video we're going to start to take that HVM template that we created and turn it into
a WordPress theme.
So what we have here at local host WordPress Tupi I have a default WordPress installation.
I haven't added or change anything.
So if you want to be on the same page as me through this through this section then just get a default
WordPress installation up and running.
All right so in the themes folder which is in W.P. content slash themes I created a folder called clean
cut and that's going to be the theme folder as you can see it's empty.
I also have it open in Sublime Text.
So when I'm going to do now is create the two files that are absolutely needed for any theme and that
is style Dotsie SS and indexed stop THP.
All right.
And then in-style CSSA we're going to add our comment with our theme information.
So say the name.
And that's going to be
clean cut.
Well do offer
Feel free to put your own name author you are
.
To description
in its version.
OK.
We'll save that.
And I have a screen shot image that I'm going to put up which you should have in your project files
.
So you want to put that right in the clean cut folder and paste that in.
And now if we go to the back end and we go to three parents themes you'll see right here we have the
clean cut theme.
So we're going to activate it.
And then the front end is just going to turn to just a blank white page.
All right.
So now I'm going to do is open up the aged hemol template folder and we're going to bring over a bunch
of stuff.
OK.
So in our WordPress theme folder let's create a folder called See access.
Let's create a folder called J as I am g.
And for fonts we're just going to bring that entire folder over.
All right.
In the CSSA folder we're going to bring over let's see everything except style Daut C Ss
and javascript's.
We're going to bring over bootstrap dot J ass
.
All right.
And we're also going to need a queery for the bootstrap nav menu for the dropdown.
So let's get that real quick just to get it out of the way.
All right.
So let's see who will grab the compressed version.
All right we'll save it to see apps W W W word press to p content themes clean cut.
J.S. save it right there.
OK let's see what else.
I think that's good.
Now for the stylesheet.
What I'm going to do is open up the style doc SS and we're going to just copy everything in here and
then go paste it in the theme style CSSA folder file.
All right and then we'll grab the index HTML
and copy that whole thing and put that in the index ph P file.
Ok save that.
And if we go to the front end then we reload will see the HTL now.
But we don't have the C Ss in effect.
And the reason for that is because of the paths.
OK if you do our P2P file and go up here what we need to do is first of all for the main style sheet
to show up we're going to just replace this whole thing here a trough with THP log info and then style
sheet URL underscore you are all right.
And then for these three we're going to just put in front of them ph P blog info
and this time we want to say template underscore you are l
and then we'll just copy that and put that in front of these ones as well.
OK save that reload.
And now our CSX is being read.
All right.
Now this is obviously just all static content so let's start to make this dynamic sort of start at the
top here in the HTML tag.
We're going to say ph P language underscore attributes.
All right.
And then for the title let's do blog info name.
Now in addition to the site name I want the page title so I'm going to put a pipe character and then
we can save HP W.P. underscore title and we'll just Passons them just empty quotes.
All right so let's go to our front end and see what we get.
All right so you'll notice that we just have the pipe character and there's nothing here.
The reason for that is since we're on the home page it's not getting a title.
If we go to let's say slash sample page now you can see the page titles there.
So what I want to do is create an if statement that if there's no page title then just put the site
description.
All right so the way we can do that is we're going to go right here and we're going to use a function
called is front page to set to see if it's the front page or not.
So is front page then will do.
Question mark if it is then we want to say log info
description.
All right.
And then we'll put a colon.
OK so that's just a shorthand if statement we're saying if it's front page show show the description
.
If it's not show the title W.P. title.
So now if we go back and reload on the home page we can see it as just another WordPress site.
If we go to sample page we still get the page title.
OK so that takes care of that.
Let's move along.
And in the nav bar we're going to replace this clean cut theme with the site name so we can use blog
in full name
and we can also make this a link.
What's a p p blog info.
And we're just going to pass and you are l
OK so now that should show us the site name also has a link.
Now for the menu we're using bootstrap and we want to be able to use dropdown So we're going to use
the Nav. Walker class which you should have in a folder called underscore resources in your section
files.
All right.
So we're going to grab that and bring it into the theme folder.
OK piece that in and then we're going to create a file called functions ph P
and we're going to pace that in so we're going to require that file.
We also need to set up our menus so
let's set up a function and we'll call it clean cut theme support
and looks to NAV menus.
So we want to register
nav menus which I want to do that I want to pass in an array.
And let's say primary
primary menu and then we're going to have another menu in the footer
just like that.
OK now we need to do add action.
And the hook is called after setup theme
and then we just want to plug in the function name and that should do it.
Now back in the index page we're going to replace this whole ul.
We'll get rid of that and I'm going to paste in the WP nav menu function with an array of options.
OK we want to use the primary menu so that should be good.
I'm going to add a class right here called nav bar X. One collapse
save.
Now if we go back and reload we get this add a menu link because we don't currently have a menu here
so we're going to click that and click on create menu.
Well just call it main menu and what I'm going to do is I want a home link so I'm going to go to custom
links and we want this to go to.
In my case local host WordPress to p text will say home OK and then I'm also going to add the sample
page.
Now down here you want to make sure that you choose primary menu save and then if we go back to the
front end we now have our menu.
All right.
So that takes care of that.
So the last thing I want to do is I want to create our header and footer files.
So be better.
Dog pee pee.
This would be for her.
And then from the index file We're going to take from a very top down to the ending now of tag we're
going to cut that out and we're going to replace it with HP.
Get better.
OK we'll paste that right in the header file and then we want the footer.
We're going to go from the very bottom up to the footer tag cut that and replace it with p p get for
her
hips that needs to have parentheses and then we're just going to pace that in four or five.
All right.
So I'll go back and reload and still working.
So that's it for now and the next video we're going to basically work from the top down.
We're going to go and create our showcase functionality and implement the Customizer